# WalkiTalki

CS 4720: Mobile App Development - Final Project <br /> <br />
Contributors: 
* Vismita Uppalli
* Siddharth Nanda
* Sharon Bryant
* Liana Poon

# Documentation

1. Platform Justification: Our application has a few core goals: encourage users to explore their surroundings, capture them, share that experience, and encourage others to follow. A mobile application makes use of platform features that encourage every one of these goals (camera, messaging, GPS), and with a cell phone carried nearly always by nearly everyone: has very wide appeal.
2. Major Screens: We have five core screens in our application. The first is the login/splash screen and on this screen, users are prompted to login with their Google account. The next screen is a map screen: the map is populated with colored markers that represent where people have taken photos. Tapping on a colored marker will show the name of the person that took the photo there. The map will also populate with black markers that represent where the user took photos, and tapping those markers will bring up a preview of that photo. On the bottom of this screen and every other, is a pink nav-bar that has buttons to navigate to each of the other views. The next screen, the profile page, can be accessed by tapping the profile icon on the left side of the nav-bar. The profile page is populated with the user’s info and any pictures they might have taken. The profile page also has the logout button available on the top right of the screen. Tapping the right most button on the nav-bar will reveal the option to navigate to both the camera and messaging views. Tapping the camera icon will open the camera, where users can take photos which will be saved on their device and show up on the profile screen. Tapping the messaging icon will open the messaging interface where users can text other users. Tapping the center button of the nav-bar returns the user to the map view screen and shaking the device takes the user directly to the camera.
3. Optional Features: Our app features GPS/Location Awareness (15 points) through a map view screen with is populated with colored markers which represent where other users have taken photos and black markers where the user has taken their photos. These markers are interact-able and can be tapped on to reveal either the photographer who took a photo at that spot (in the case of the colored markers) or a photo preview (in the case of the black markers). It also features the Camera (15 points), where users can take photos and have them displayed on the profile page (images saved locally and the location of the image stored in Firebase). We integrated Device Shake (10 points), and we use shaking the device as a shortcut to take users directly to the camera view. We are building and consuming web-services we created with GCP and Firebase (15 points): we use these services for login, saving the location of photos (to populate the map view), and for our text messaging feature. Finally, we have a shared activity feature (5 points) that allows users to text other users of the app.
4. Testing Methods: We used manual integration testing methods to model user actions in our application and ensure the intended functionality was clear and usable as well as to find irregular or unexpected application behavior. We regularly tested all parts of our application after a major change.
5. Usage: You will need a Google account to use our application. First, login through the prompt on the splash screen. Then, tap the right most button on the nav-bar and then the camera icon (or shake the device) to go to the camera view and take photos. After doing so, head back to the map view to observe the markers and tap on them to see the names of people who have taken pictures in a certain location or your own photos. Then check out the profile page by clicking on the left most nav-bar button to see the photos you’ve just taken. Tap on the right most button on the nav-bar again, and click the messaging icon. This will take you to the messaging interface where you can text other users. Finally, return to the profile page and tap the top right button to log out.
Lessons Learned: We learned a lot about considering how users use the application you’ve provided, and how to best layout items and features within the application to make them readily accessible and easy to use.
